## 2.1 How Partners Can Help Teen Services Librarians {#2-1-how-partners-can-help-teen-services-librarians}


<div class="text">“We believe that being the best we can at what we do means not trying to be all things to all people by not trying to do it alone.” — Ali Turner[5]</div>

<br>
There are many ways that community partnerships can benefit libraries. Partners can broaden the opportunities available to youth and can even increase the youth audience of the library by bringing the library and its services to youth who might not have experienced them otherwise.

<br>
<table class="heading-cell"><tr><th>PARTNERS CAN EXPOSE TEENS TO NEW CAREERS, OPPORTUNITIES, AND INTERESTS</th><td>One of the most powerful ways partners can help libraries is by letting teens experience a diverse range of careers, opportunities, and interests. A professional can share expertise and real-world insight beyond what even the most accomplished teen services librarian can provide. Partners can mentor youth or library staff, and can be resources for programming.<a href="#"><br><br>CASE STUDY: PROVIDENCE PUBLIC LIBRARY & RHODE ISLAND SCHOOL OF DESIGN</a></td>
</tr><tr><th>PARTNERS CAN BRING NEW AUDIENCES TO THE LIBRARY</th><td>Partners who have already built a youth community can introduce them to the library and its resources. Organizations with established audiences might include: scouts or 4-H clubs; YMCA/YWCA; schools; school clubs (e.g. the robotics club or Lego Mindstorm club), other youth-serving organizations; and city facilities like rec centers.<a href="#"><br><br>CASE STUDY: BRINGING NEW AUDIENCES TO THE LIBRARY</a></td></tr><tr><th>PARTNERS CAN BRING THE LIBRARY TO NEW AUDIENCES</th><td>Youth services librarians need to get out of the library building and go to teens “where they are, rather than waiting for teens to to find a way to get to the physical library space.”[6] Partners might have spaces that youth are already using where you can bring programs. Look back at the list in the previous section—these same organizations might have spaces where you can take your programming.<a href="#"><br><br>CASE STUDY: CHARLOTTE MECKLENBURG LIBRARY AND THE MECKLENBURG COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE</a></td></tr><tr><th>A FULLER PERSPECTIVE ON THE COMMUNITY</th><td>Even if library staff do a great and thorough job of getting to know the teens that come into the library, understanding the teens who _don’t_ come into the library is a different story. Partners who work with different segments of the youth population can fill the library in on what they’re missing.<div class="text">Working with other community partners who know what's going on in the big picture can help actually bring in more teens to make it more global in terms of that community. -- INTK_002</div><a href="#"><br>CASE STUDY: DENVER PUBLIC LIBRARY</a></td></tr><tr><th>PARTNERS CAN PROVIDE MATERIAL SUPPORT</th><td>Simply donating money or materials in return for a public “thank you” from the library is an easy entry point to partnership for many organizations, particularly local businesses.<a href="#"><br><br>CASE STUDY: PARTNERING WITH LOCAL BUSINESSES</a></td></tr></table>

___________________________________________________________________

[^5]: Turner, Ali. “Bring Your Dreams to the Library.” _Young Adult Library Services_, 2013.

[^6]: Braun, Linda W., Maureen L. Hartman, Sandra Hughes-Hassell, Kafi Kumasi, and Beth Yoke. “The Future of Library Services for and with Teens: A Call to Action.” Chicago, IL: YALSA, 2014, 16.